---
layout: default
---

# 8810 Hub

### Course Information

- **Course Title**: Uses of Intermediate Statistical Methods (POLS 8810)

- **Instructor**: Michael Fix (mfix@gsu.edu)

- **Teaching Assistant**: Patrick Munger (pmunger1@gsu.edu)

- **Meeting Time**: Thursdays, 12:45 - 3:15pm

- **Class Location**: Langdale 1076

### Office Hours

- **Michael Fix**: Thursdays 9:30am - 11:30am, Langdale 1007 or by Appt
- **Patrick Munger**: Tuesdays & Wednesdays 2:30 - 4:30pm, Langdale 1011 (or department room)

### Syllabus 

[8810 Syllabus](8810SyllabusSpr25.pdf)

### Required Text 

Fox, John, and Sanford Weisberg. 2011. *An R and S-Plus Companion to Applied Regression*, 2nd Ed. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Weisberg, Sanford. 2013. *Applied Linear Regression*, 4th Ed. New York: Wiley. 

## Problem Sets
#### Problem Set 1
[Problem Set 1](8810_ps/PS1.pdf)

[Problem Set 1: Most Common Problems](8810_ps/PS1Problems.pdf)
#### Problem Set 2
[Problem Set 2](8810_ps/PS2.pdf)

[Problem Set 2: Most Common Problems](8810_ps/PS2Problems.pdf)

#### Reminders for problem sets:
- Submit replication materials as an R-script (.R) and not RMarkdown (.Rmd). Use `#` to write comments.
- The ANES data is in the Stata file format (.dta) and will need to be imported into R accordingly.
- Save the data file to your working directory and import it directly as `"anes200TS.dta"`.  
- Do not include `install.packages()` in your script unless you comment it out with `#`.
- Do not include code to save objects (such as figures) to a directory, unless commented out. 

## Week 1: Linear Algebra Review

### Slides
[Linear Algebra Slides](8810_slides/01Matrix.pdf)

## Week 2: Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) 

### Slides
[Data Slides](8810_slides/02Data.pdf)

### R Scripts
[EDA RMarkdown Script](8810_r_scripts/week2_EDA-markdown.Rmd)

### Data
- Throughout the semester we will be using the Varieties of Democracy (V-Dem) version 12 dataset.
- The data file is too big for the github repository, so I made it public for download on dropbox [here](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/08410ec66mycocc61lwxn/vdem12.rds?rlkey=i0x8o60h17007khiel3k0duig&e=1&st=wkvxi2rz&dl=0)
- Here is the codebook: [V-Dem v12 Codebook](8810_r_data/codebookv12.pdf)

### Suplimentray Material
- Dr. Fix's Guide to Tables: [Guide to Tables](8810_sup/guideToTables.pdf)

## Week 3: R workshop
- See my email for Dr. Tuncel's demonstration files and materials.

## Week 4: Bivariate OLS Regression I

### Slides
[Bivariate OLS Slides](8810_slides/04Bivariate.pdf)

### R Scripts

I provide the R scripts in both .R and .Rmd format below. I have greatly expanded the annotations and commentary in the markdown file (.Rmd), so this will be the more useful one for explanation. for simply referencing the code, the .R should be sutible. 
- R file: [Bivariate OLS R Script](8810_r_scripts/week4_bivariate_OLS.R)
- RMarkdown file: [Bivariate OLS RMarkdown Script](8810_r_scripts/week4_bivariate_OLS-markdown.Rmd)

## Week 5: Bivariate OLS Regression II

### Slides
[Bivariate II Slides](8810_slides/05Inference.pdf)

### R Scripts

Refer to the Markdown file for expanded annotations and explanations.  
- R file: [Bivariate II R Script](8810_r_scripts/week5_bivariate2.R)
- RMarkdown file: [Bivariate II RMarkdown Script](8810_r_scripts/week5_bivariate2-markdown.Rmd)

## Week 6: Multiple Regression

### Slides
[Multiple Regression Slides](8810_slides/06MultipleReg.pdf)

### R Scripts

Refer to the Markdown file for expanded demonstrations, annotations, and explanations.  
- R file: [Multiple Regression R Script](8810_r_scripts/week6_multiple.R)
- RMarkdown file: [Multiple Regression RMarkdown Script](8810_r_scripts/week6_multiple-markdown.Rmd)

## Week 7: Dichotomous Predictors 

### Slides
[Dichoromous Predictors Slides](8810_slides/07Dummy.pdf)

### R Scripts

Refer to the Markdown file for expanded demonstrations, annotations, and explanations of in class demonstrations. Refer to R-file for simplified codeas well as advanced transformations. 
- R file: [Dichotomous Predictors R Script](8810_r_scripts/week7_dichotomous.R)
- RMarkdown file: [Dichotomous Predictors RMarkdown Script](8810_r_scripts/week7_dichotomous-markdown.Rmd)

## Week 8: Multiplicative Interactions 

### Slides
[Interaction Slides](8810_slides/08Interaction.pdf)

### R Scripts

- RMarkdown file: [Interaction RMarkdown Script](8810_r_scripts/week8_interactions-markdwon.Rmd)


