# 8830 Hub 

### Course Information

- **Course Title**: Advanced Quantitative Methods (POLS 8830)

- **Instructor**: Ryan Carlin (rcarlin@gsu.edu)

- **Teaching Assistant**: Patrick Munger (pmunger1@gsu.edu)

- **Meeting Time**: Tuesdays, 4:30 - 7:00pm

- **Class Location**: Langdale 1076

### Office Hours

- **Ryan Carlin**: Thursdays 1:00 - 4:00pm, Langdale 1055 or by Appt
- **Patrick Munger**: Tuesdays & Wednesdays 2:00 - 4:00pm, Langdale 1027 (or department room)

### Required Text 

Long, J. Scott. 1997. *Regression Models for Categorical and Limited Dependent Variables.* Thousand
Oaks, CA: Sage Publications.

# Week 1: Matrix Algebra Fundementals 

### Slides
[Matrix Algebra Slides](8830_slides/01Matrix.pdf)

# Week 2: Review of the Linear Regression Model (OLS)

### Slides
[OLS Slides](8830_slides/02OLS.pdf)
### R Scripts
[Linear Regression (R file)](8830_r_scripts/Week2_Linear_Regression.R)

[Linear Regression (R Markdown file with annotations)](8830_r_scripts/OLS_Review.Rmd)
### Notes on R
- While the above scripts should run fine on your current version of R, it might be a good idea to update R and RStudio if you have not already.
- You can do so by downloading and installing the latest versions for R [here](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/base/) and RStudio [here](https://posit.co/download/rstudio-desktop/).
- To make sure the new version of R is running when you open RStudio, go to Tools > Global Options > General, and select the latest version you just downloaded (as of my writing this, that version is 4.4.1). You will have to restart RStudio for it to begin running. The latest version should then be listed at the top of your console.
  
### Notes on linear and generalized linear models
- Aside from a review of implementing OLS and checking assumptions in R, the most important takeaway this week is that we are preparing to move from estimating linear models to estimating generalized linear models (GLMs) using the glm() function and specifying the distribution.
- GLMs are capable of generalizing the linear model to exponential distributions besides the normal (Gaussian), such that models with non-continuous Dependent Variables can be estimated.
- While the best unbiased linear model uses OLS to estimate parameter values that minimize residuals, generalized linear models typically estimate parameters that maximize the likelihood of observing our data - a modeling process we call "Maximum Likelihood Estimation" (MLE).
