# 8830 Hub 

### Course Information

- **Course Title**: Advanced Quantitative Methods (POLS 8830)

- **Instructor**: Ryan Carlin (rcarlin@gsu.edu)

- **Teaching Assistant**: Patrick Munger (pmunger1@gsu.edu)

- **Meeting Time**: Tuesdays, 4:30 - 7:00pm

- **Class Location**: Langdale 1076

### Office Hours

- **Ryan Carlin**: Thursdays 1:00 - 4:00pm, Langdale 1055 or by Appt
- **Patrick Munger**: Tuesdays & Wednesdays 2:30 - 4:00pm, Langdale 1011 (or department room)

### Required Text 

Long, J. Scott. 1997. *Regression Models for Categorical and Limited Dependent Variables.* Thousand
Oaks, CA: Sage Publications.

# Week 1: Matrix Algebra Fundementals 

### Slides
[Matrix Algebra Slides](8830_slides/01Matrix.pdf)

# Week 2: Review of the Linear Regression Model (OLS)

### Slides
[OLS Slides](8830_slides/02OLS.pdf)
### R Scripts
[Linear Regression (R file)](8830_r_scripts/Week2_Linear_Regression.R)

[Linear Regression (R Markdown file with annotations)](8830_r_scripts/Week2_Linear_Regression_markdown.Rmd)
### Notes on R
- While the above scripts should run fine on your current version of R, it might be a good idea to update R and RStudio if you have not already.
- You can do so by downloading and installing the latest versions for R [here](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/base/) and RStudio [here](https://posit.co/download/rstudio-desktop/).
- To make sure the new version of R is running when you open RStudio, go to Tools > Global Options > General, and select the latest version you just downloaded (as of my writing this, that version is 4.4.1). You will have to restart RStudio for it to begin running. The latest version should then be listed at the top of your console.
  
### Notes on linear and generalized linear models
- Aside from a review of implementing OLS and checking assumptions in R, the most important takeaway this week is that we are preparing to move from estimating linear models to estimating generalized linear models (GLMs) using the glm() function and specifying the distribution.
- GLMs generalize the linear model to other distributions besides the normal (Gaussian), such that models with non-continuous Dependent Variables can be estimated.
- While the best unbiased linear model uses OLS to estimate parameter values that minimize residuals, generalized linear models typically estimate parameters that maximize the likelihood of observing our data - a modeling process we call "Maximum Likelihood Estimation" (MLE).

# Week 3: Overview of the Maximum Likelihood Estimator 

### Slides
[MLE Slides](8830_slides/03MLE.pdf)
### Notes
- No R scripts this week, as we are focusing on understanding the logic of MLE and the implications of estimating and interpreting non-linear models.
- Next week, we will begin estimating and interpreting MLE models in R, beginning with binary response models.
- The most important takeaways from this week are the implications of working with non-continuous outcomes and non-linear models:
  - With continous outcomes and linear models, the slope coefficient is constant across values of x for each IV, with other IVs held contant. This makes it much easier to estimate parameters, as minimizing the sum or the squared residuals has a closed-form solution, meaning it is analytically tractible and could be solved by hand for (through we usually use computers).
  - With con-continuous outcomes and non-linear models, we do not have a contstant slope, and the marginal effect of an independent variable is dependent the other IVs and its own values (the entire X matrix). This makes estimating paramaters far more complex, involving much more calculus and computational power. Rather than having a closed-form solution for paramater estimates, numerical optimization techniques are computationally utilized to essentially perform trials and errors until the likelihood function is minimized, discovering the paramater values under which the observed data is most likely to occur.
  - Since we are observing non-linear effects, coefficients are not dirctly interpretable as in OLS (wherein "a 1 unit change in x is associated with a __ unit change in y"). We will discuss in later weeks how in some models we can make these more interpretable by taking their natural log. 
  
# Week 4: Binary Response Miodels

### Slides
[Logit/Probit Slides](8830_slides/05Logit.pdf)
### R Scripts
[Logit and Probit Models (updated R Markdown file)](8830_r_scripts/Week5_Logit_Probit_Models_upd.Rmd)

[Logit and Probit Models (R file)](8830_r_scripts/Week5_Logit_Probit_Models_tidy.R)
- note the DAMisc package was removed from the CRAN repository. The most recent version can be manually downloaded from the archive [here](https://cran.r-project.org/src/contrib/Archive/DAMisc/) and manually installed with "install.packages("/path_to/Downloads/DAMisc_1.7.2.tar.gz", repos = NULL, type = "source")" replacing the path with the actual path to your Downloads. Otherwise, the script below contains a function written by Russ for computing PRE without an external package.This function has been substituted for the DAMisc function in the Markdown file, but not the R file. 

[PRE Function (R file)](8830_r_scripts/Week5_PRE_tidy.R)
### Notes 
- Remember, we cannot directly interpret logit or probit coefficients, as they are log odds. Instead we focus on their direction and statistical significance. We can exponentiate them to obtain odds ratios, from which we can also obtain predicted probabilities and marginal effects. These can be used to examine the effect sizes of our predictor variables.
- The goodness of fit tests are meant to assess how well models explain the data, but in applied research, our goal is not necessarily to produce a model that best explains the data. Most of the time, in fact, our goal is to test specific relationships. Thus, just because goodness of fit tests suggest that we should remove a variable or throw out a model, does not necessarily mean that we should. If a variable or model is important to testing our hypotheses, controlling for variables, guiding or theory, or providing some other methodological or substantive utility, we should keep it.
  
# Week 5:  Reliability and Validity; Factor Analysis

### Slides
[Measurement Slides](8830_slides/04Measurement.pdf)
### R Scripts
[Factor Analysis (updated R Markdown file)](8830_r_scripts/Week3_Reliability_Correlations_Factor_Analysis_upd.Rmd)
### Data
- In the R script above, you will need to import ANES data. The data file is too large to host on github, so I created a dropbox link from which it can be downloaded [here](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/97wmtao6l30s930chddmm/anes_timeseries_cdf.dta?rlkey=cmn8ax1sm1ua0hvosoahnvnoe&st=lfqe70xu&dl=0) (note: you do not need to sign in to dropbox - click "or continue to download" below the signin window)
- Download the ANES codebook [here](8830_r_data/ANES_Codebook.pdf)
  
# Week 6: Interpreting Results; Interaction Terms

### Slides
[Results Slides](8830_slides/06Substantive.pdf)
### R Scripts
[Graphs and Interactions (updated R Markdown file)](8830_r_scripts/Week6_Graphs_and_Interactions_upd.Rmd)
### Data
[ANES 2000 Data (Rdata)](8830_r_data/anes2000.Rdata)

[Comprehensive ANES Codebook](8830_r_data/anes_timeseries_cdf_codebook_var_20220916.pdf)

# Week 7: Ordinal Models

### Slides
[Ordinal Slides](8830_slides/07Ordinal.pdf)
### R Scripts
[Ordinal Models Markdown](8830_r_scripts/Week7_Ordinal_Models_new.Rmd)

# Week 8: Multinomial Models

### Slides
[Multinomial Slides](8830_slides/08multinomial.pdf)
### R Scripts
[Multinomial Models Markdown](8830_r_scripts/Week8_Multinomial_Models_new.Rmd)

[Hausman-McFadden test for BEPS models](8830_r_scripts/hf_test.R) 

# Week 9: Survival/Duration Models

### Slides
[Survival/Duration Slides](8830_slides/10Duration.pdf)
### R Scripts 
[Survival/Duration/Hazard/Event History Models Markdown](8830_r_scripts/Week9_Hazard_Models_new.Rmd)
### Applied Examples
- ["The Duration of Interstate Wars, 1816–1985" (Bennett & Stam III, 1996)](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/american-political-science-review/article/abs/duration-of-interstate-wars-18161985/3EF9CB87B5A12251C3F8CF878600A06B)
- ["Political Institutions and Human Rights: Why Dictatorships Enter into the United Nations Convention Against Torture" (Vreeland, 2008)](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/international-organization/article/abs/political-institutions-and-human-rights-why-dictatorships-enter-into-the-united-nations-convention-against-torture/C59285EE1DB7541CCF6A5F33D6A63A92)
- ["Time for a haircut: political regimes and sovereign debt restructurings" (Mamone, 2020)](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/figure/10.1080/03050629.2020.1742119?scroll=top&needAccess=true)

# Week 10:  Count Models

### Slides
[Count Slides](8830_slides/10Count.pdf)
### R Scripts 
[Count Models Markdown](8830_r_scripts/Week10_Count_Models_new.Rmd)
### Data
[Terrorism Data](8830_r_data/terrorism_data.Rdata)

# Week 11: Multilevel Models 

### Slides
[Multilevel Slides](8830_slides/11Multilevel.pdf)
